Have you ever felt like you are losing
yourself when you are with other people?
Almost like their thoughts, their
opinions, their emotions are starting to
blend with yours and you end up not even
knowing anymore what's yours and what's
theirs. Hi guys, welcome back to my
channel. My name is Michaela and today
we are going to talk about the fear of
losing yourself in social settings. So,
if you are only feeling like yourself
when you are by yourself, then this
video is for you. By the end of this
video, you will know how to stay
grounded without isolating yourself from
the rest of the world. Let's get into
this. First of all, I want you to
understand why do you feel like losing
yourself in the first place when you're
around others. The thing is when we are
around others we feel a kind of pressure
to adjust and to impress others even not
knowing. I'm sure you're not aware of
feeling like you want to impress someone
around you. You want to adjust. You want
to comfort them. But that's something we
humans automatically do. We want to
adjust especially when we are not so
rooted within ourselves. So when you're
around people, your thoughts, your
emotions, your opinions always mix up
with the opinions, thoughts and emotions
from others. And in special when the
person that you are with or the people
that you are with have very strong
opinions, they have very strong
thoughts, they have very strong energy
in themselves. So we start to think that
must be the truth and we doubt our own
truth. The thing we are doing is that we
kind of put others on a pedestal where
they are actually not. But just for your
understanding when you are with others
and your thoughts, your emotions, your
opinions get so much influenced by
others then it's because you put them on
a pedestal and you think they are
something better than you. They must
know something better than you. So you
start to interrogate yourself. you start
to question yourself
if maybe you are wrong. And to be
honest, no judgment, no shame for that
because I am the same. I used to always
overthink what I'm doing, what I'm
saying, if I'm right, if I'm wrong. I
was never really rooted within myself
because I didn't really know who I was.
I can tell you one story of myself. So,
I was watching a YouTube video from one
girl that unconsciously I put her on a
pedestal. I thought she is something
better than me. And she was talking
about her skinincare routine, about her
beauty routine and how she would never
ever do laser treatments and she would
also not use a razor. She would not
shave. She would only use the hair
removal cream from wheat, I think. And I
know from my experience, I do not go
well with these hair removal creams, but
I put her on a pedestal and then I
thought, okay, it works for her, so it
must work for me, too. I do the same as
well. I did it. And again, I got a rush.
I knew already this is not for me. And
that moment was when I caught myself
again just putting someone else on a
pedestal and thinking that what I feel
what I think is wrong. She must know
better. Another thing is the fear of
judgment. We tend to lose ourselves in
social settings when we are afraid to be
judged of who we truly are. So we are
overanalyzing our words, our actions,
our behaviors because we do not want to
be judged. And I can give you again an
example of myself when I was with my
friends out. I used
to not eat too much, not speak too loud,
not laugh too much because I was afraid
that people would judge me on that, that
people would say, "Oh, look, she's
eating like a pig." or oh she is talking
so loud or things like that. So I would
just be completely quiet and completely
be with myself to not edge on someone to
not have someone saying something
negative against me because at some
point I was not rooted within myself. I
was insecure or sensitive in a way that
I couldn't let negative opinions get to
me because what would happen if someone
would tell me, "Oh, you're eating like a
pig." I would question my whole
identity. I would question if my body is
not nice, if something is wrong with me,
or I'm just a weird person and so on.
So, I always felt like I'm not fitting
to people, right? And the same goes with
opinions. When you share your opinion
and the opinions from the people you're
around with are different, of course,
they are going to feel a certain type of
way. They are going to know who you
really are. They are going to know this
person has an opinion about ABC. And
there it is. You can be judged on that.
And this has so much to do also with who
you surround yourself with. Of course,
you can always be judged, but if you are
with true kind-hearted people, then
you're not so afraid to be judged. But
this usually comes from childhood
already. Maybe in childhood you got
always the feeling from your parents
that something is wrong with you or you
need to change or you need to be in a
certain way to be approved to be loved
and from that moment on this just goes
on and on and on from kindergarten to
school to high school and so on. So
every time you are thinking there is
something wrong with you with your true
self you need to hide your true self
that's why you are overthinking you are
overanalyzing yourself your actions your
words your opinions and are almost
afraid of showing up as yourself. What
happens then is that you will end up
socially exhausted because you are every
time trying to change your personality
unconsciously of course change your
identity almost just to be the same as
others just to fit in in a group. And
this can be exhausting. This is
exhausting. And another thing is to be
sensitive when you're around people. I'm
very sensitive and I think there is
nothing wrong with being sensitive
because it also is such a blessing when
you're sensitive, you're empathic, you
really feel how other people feel, how
other people think and you're kind of
protected from a higher power because
when you're sensitive to energies, to
people, then also you feel immediately
when something is off. You feel
immediately when something is wrong and
you also feel immediately when something
is right and good for you. The problem
is when you think you're sensitive but
actually your sensitivity turns into
insecurity. When you are sensitive, when
you are a sensitive girly and you are
not secure in yourself enough, you're
not rooted in yourself enough. your
sensitivity turns into insecurity. So
the question is do you struggle to be
with people to be around people because
you are sensitive or because you don't
fully trust in yourself and that's a
very fine line of difference. You can be
sensitive still be around people without
letting them impact you so much. You can
be sensitive and be around people who
feel bad, who are going through
something hard, something sad, and you
can be with them, support them through
this time, through these moments because
you learn to not take on their energy as
yours. You learn to accept their energy
and their opinions as it's theirs. And
you really feel what they feel, but you
know it's not part of you. And that's
the same with opinions, thoughts, and
emotions. When you have true confidence
within you, then you can be around any
person, around any social setting. You
can be around any group of people and
still be yourself without having to
change, to overanalyze, to check on
yourself, to feel exhausted after you
meet them. And honestly, I don't want
you to feel bad because you you're
realizing maybe now, oh, maybe I don't
have that much confidence. It's okay,
honey. It's okay. It's fine. I also
don't have that much confidence. Even if
you think I'm talking in front of the
camera, I'm like the Instagram girly. I
show everything. No, I struggled with
this my whole life. And it's just
getting better right now because I'm
getting older. I'm getting to know
myself and I'm getting to understand
what's actually going on. And that's why
I'm here. I'm talking about it so I can
help you to understand the same and to
not beat yourself up because you're not
that confident yet. Next thing I want to
talk about is the power of being alone.
Being alone is also something that
carries a lot of power and confidence
within itself. When you're being alone,
you actually face yourself. You actually
face your fears. You face your doubts.
You face your dark sides. And that's
something not everyone can do. So, first
of all, being alone and enjoying your
solitude is a power move itself. And
second of all, when you are by yourself,
of course, there is nobody to judge you.
There is nobody to second guessess you.
Also, you yourself are not
secondguessing you because it feels safe
for you. You literally have no pressure
to filter yourself, to put your mask on
when you go outside. You are by yourself
and you are your true self and you
accept and love yourself as you are.
Otherwise, you wouldn't even enjoy 5
minutes being with yourself. When you're
alone, your thoughts are clear. You can
really reconnect with yourself. And if
that feels peaceful to you, it means
also that's in you. When you feel at
your best and you feel the most bliss,
when you are with yourself alone in
solitude, that means this is you, baby
girl. This is in your heart. This is in
you. And this is something you can be so
proud and so happy and blessed about.
Imagine there are people when they are
alone, they are facing their worst
demons. They are having the worst times
in their life because that's in them. So
if you're able to really find peace when
you're by yourself, that's a big
blessing and that's a big karma point
for yourself. So I want you to take that
peace and really say, "Wow, that's
really myself." The feeling I have when
I'm with myself
is in me. It's not because of someone
else. Another thing what solitude
teaches you is clarity. It teaches you
clarity. It teaches you self-rust and it
teaches you emotional independence. You
really get to know yourself. You really
get to know who you are without any
external noise because that external
noise of course is influencing you if
you want it or not. You are adapting
when you are around people. So if you
surround yourself with people who are
always mean, who are always
disappointed, who are always negative,
guess what? That will be part of you. At
the end of the day, we are all
just results of everything we consume,
of everything we surround ourselves. We
are absorbing people's emotions,
people's speech patterns, people's
opinions, people's beliefs. But the
thing is when you're always alone,
you're also missing something big.
Because when you are around the right
people, you can take something from
them. Imagine now you are always by
yourself, but something is lacking.
Something is missing. You are not
earning the money you want. You are not
reaching the goal you want. And when
you're by yourself, all you can do is
blame yourself, right? But what you can
do is to use socializing, to use social
gatherings for you. You can use it
to change yourself. When you are aware
that you're absorbing everything around
you, that you're absorbing people's
beliefs, emotions, thoughts, and so on,
then you can choose wisely with who you
want to surround yourself in order to
get to that goal that you want to go to.
Example, you want to lose weight, you
want to improve your beauty, find
friends who are master in that. Find
friends which have it as a lifestyle to
take care of themselves to do their
hair, do their makeup, lose weight, eat
healthy, have a fit lifestyle and you
will see how quick you will adapt those
energies. You will adapt those routines
and habits. What I'm saying is instead
of completely losing yourself when you
are around people, you can actually use
it to your own benefit. And with being
aware that you adapt, that you absorb,
that you adjust anyways when you're
around people, then why not choose the
right people? Then why not use it for
you? If you want to grow a business,
surround yourself with business people.
If you want to earn more money, find
rich friends. If you want to start to be
a YouTuber, if you want to start social
media, surround yourself with people who
are doing that on a daily basis. Now the
question is how can you do that without
losing yourself? Because of course you
don't want to end up asking yourself but
who am I? The question is how do you do
that? How do you connect with others?
How do you be around others without
losing yourself? First of all, know
yourself before you walk into a room,
before you are going to a meeting,
before you are going to have a meet up
with a friend. Really ask yourself, who
am I as who I want to show up today?
What are my core beliefs? Just have a
little chitchat with yourself in your
head. Get kind of rooted. Get kind of a
contract with yourself that you know
okay this is me today. This is who I am.
Also be sure of what you want to do. You
want to go to a restaurant. You want to
go to a cafe. You want to eat something
or you just want to drink something. And
even if everyone is deciding we are
going to smoke shisha, you stay
grounded. You stay rooted. You say, "I'm
going home. Thank you. It was really
nice to meet you guys." That's it. Or if
they are going to party, but you are
simply not a party person, then just go
home, honey. Just go home. You don't
need to follow. And they will respect
you. They will respect you actually even
more when you're staying grounded and
rooted to who you are as a person. And
this comes into the next thing. Say no
when something doesn't align with you.
Try really to not absorb their opinions,
not change your opinion because someone
else is having another opinion. Say,
"No, I don't feel the same." Say, "No,
I'm not coming with you guys. It was
nice." Be friendly. Be kind. But learn
to accept and respect your own
boundaries. And they will also respect
your boundaries. The next thing is
observe don't absorb. Which means when
you're listening to stories, opinions,
when you're listening to someone
talking, just observe what they are
talking and don't absorb it. I'm
catching myself so often when I'm
absorbing someone's information and not
just observing what they feel. When I'm
listening to someone telling me a story
about how difficult it was for them to
do something I want to do, I really try
to observe what they are saying and
understand that from their perspective
and not to absorb it and create a
feeling in myself that says wow this is
going to happen to me as well. No, you
really have to try to observe instead of
absorb. So listen without automatically
making their thoughts, their
experiences, beliefs, emotions, opinions
as yours. The next thing is of course
emotional detachment. You really need to
see people as who they are. They are
nothing more and nothing less than you.
A human person with their experiences,
with their beliefs, with their upcoming
and so on. You are you and they are
them. We both can be looking the same,
smelling the same, having the same name,
but our two experiences from the same
event will be completely different. And
you will always need to remind yourself
that you are not them. They are not you.
And everything they are saying can be
whatever they experienced. But it
doesn't mean that's the same for you.
And the next thing after every meeting,
after every socializing you can do is
kind of a reset. So, when you're home,
when you're by yourself, in your safe
place, in your safe spot, you ask
yourself, "How did I feel? How was this
for me? Did I feel like I could be
myself or did I feel like I had to
shift? I had to do something to fit in."
And then also you can sort out with who
you feel better, with who you feel like
you can be you and with who not. Some
people are also not easy to be with. Or
let's rephrase that. Some people are
just not good for you to be with. And
that's fine as well. If I'm thinking
about my life, I have friends. When I'm
with them, I feel amazing. I feel like I
can be my true self. And I felt that
with them from day one or day two.
Because usually when I meet new people
the first day I'm really quiet. I'm
really introvert. But once I get to know
them a little bit better, I know
immediately is this a person I can be
myself with or is this a person I really
struggle to be myself with. I have
friends I really try to not see them as
much because every time I am with them I
feel like I was not myself being with
them. I really struggle to be my
authentic self and express my authentic
self when I'm with them. And that's
fine. That doesn't make the other person
bad. That doesn't make the other person
any less worth or any less lovable.
That's just a realization. And that's to
enjoy with awareness, caution, and just
in moderation. Another thing you really
need to understand is the difference
between isolation and solitude. Because
sometimes we feel like we are really
enjoying solitude. That's why we don't
want
to hang out with others. We don't want
to socialize. But sometimes it's not the
solitude that we are really enjoying.
It's more an isolation because we're
afraid of judgment, of losing ourselves.
We are afraid of being seen as who we
are. And that's then a kind of defense
mechanism that makes you in that belief
in that bubble that you are fine and
everyone is not fine because you're not
feeling great when you're with someone
else. Of course, it's easier to be
alone, easier to not show up, easier to
not go outside, especially when you have
a pure heart and you enjoy to be with
yourself. But true confidence isn't in
hiding. True solitude is in
understanding solitude is something that
strengthens me, that strengthens my
personality, that strengthens my
connection to myself. But honey, it
doesn't strengthen you when you keep
isolating yourself in order to not get
rejected. The true goal is to be
confident and to be able to show up as
yourself no matter where you are. You
don't want to be dependent on solitude
for the rest of your life. That's a very
lonely and almost miserable life. If you
think about staying alone for the rest
of your life, that's not something very
aspirational. If you only feel like
yourself when you're with yourself,
that's not freedom. That's actually a
prison that you create for yourself. And
that's a shadow that you don't want to
look at and work through. The real
challenge is not to simply escape
everyone, escape the whole world. The
real challenge lies in being so
confident and rooted within yourself
that no matter what's happening around
you, who is around you or who isn't
around you, it doesn't shake you. It
doesn't break you. You need to learn to
be around whoever and still be confident
and rooted within yourself. Keep always
in mind, solitude is great, but solitude
always should make you stronger.
Solitude should never ever make you
afraid to engage with the world, to have
friends, to go out and show up outside
and for yourself. Because when you are
showing up outside, when you're showing
up with friends, when you're showing up
in social gatherings, you are also
showing up for yourself. I want you to
think about a child. Imagine your child
is only at home. It doesn't meet with
friends. It doesn't talk to anyone else
but you. It doesn't do any social
activities. No playing games with
others, nothing. It's just at home
playing her own games. How would you
feel about that? How would you feel
about your child being alone at home all
day, every day, 24/7, and when your
child is outside, she's crying when
she's meeting someone? She's feeling
afraid when she's around people. You
wouldn't want that for your child. Why
do you want that for yourself? Anyways
guys, I hope this could help you. I hope
this could open your mind and understand
that solitude is something great, but it
shouldn't be isolation. I hope you find
the strength to be solid in who you are
and finally get out there, meet with
people with joy, without feeling drained
and losing yourself. I love you so, so
much, and I see you in my next video.
Bye-bye.